[master < T154-MAGE] Add k-means clustering docs (#570)
memgraph/docs: mage/query-modules/python/kmeans-clustering.md

---
id: kmeans
title: kmeans
sidebar_label: kmeans
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>
);

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-kmeans-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/kmeans.py)

## Abstract

> The k-means algorithm clusters given data by trying to separate samples in `n` groups of equal variance, by minimizing a criterion known as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The k-means algorithm clusters given data by trying to separate samples in `n` groups of equal variance by minimizing the criterion known as 
```

> The KMeans algorithm clusters given data by trying to separate samples in `n` groups of equal variance, by minimizing a criterion known as 

Reviewer 2: Please choose how we are going to call this algorithm as I can see there are a lot of variants (kMeans, k-means, K-means, K-Means) and stick to it :)

Author: I will stick to` k-means`

> within-the-cluster sum-of-squares. To understand more about it, jump to the [algorithm](../../algorithms/machine-learning-graph-analytics/k-means-clustering-algorithm) page.

Reviewer: Rather don’t tell the readers they don’t understand it
```suggestion
within-the-cluster sum-of-squares. To learn more about it, jump to the [algorithm](../../algorithms/machine-learning-graph-analytics/k-means-clustering-algorithm) page.
```

| Trait               | Value                                                          |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**module**</Highlight>              |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>              |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed/undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**weighted/unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight>          |

## Procedures

> ### `get_clusters( n_clusters, embedding_property, init, n_init, max_iter, tol, algorithm, random_state)`

Reviewer: Spacing
```suggestion
### `get_clusters(n_clusters, embedding_property, init, n_init, max_iter, tol, algorithm, random_state)`
```

> This procedure returns for each node to which cluster it belongs to.

Reviewer: Gramar
```suggestion
For each node, this procedure returns what cluster it belongs to.
```

#### Input:

> - `n_clusters : int` ➡ The number of clusters to form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
```

> - `embedding_property : str` ➡ From which property of node will embeddings be read.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `embedding_property : str` ➡ Node property used to read embeddings.
```

> - `init : str` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, the initial cluster centroids are selected using sampling based on an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `init : str` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
```

> If `random` then `n_clusters` observations (rows) are chosen for the initial centroids randomly from the data.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "rows"?
```suggestion
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (rows) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
```

Author: Yes, if I am not wrong, observations are basically data points

Author: Rows meaning one data point in 2d table where row is each entry

- `n_init : int` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.

> - `max_iter : int` ➡ Length of one walk in walk sampling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `max_iter : int` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
```

> - `tol : float` ➡ Relative tolerance with regards to Frobenius norm of the difference in the cluster centers of two consecutive iterations to declare convergence.

Reviewer: Clarify
```suggestion
- `tol : float` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
```

> - `algorithm : str` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`.

Reviewer: Where are the options described? Maybe we could use a link here.

> - `random_state : int` ➡ Use an int to make the randomness deterministic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `random_state : int` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm.
```
By the way, does this parameter have a default value?

Author: I think it does! I will update it

> - `random_state : int` ➡ Use an int to make the randomness deterministic

Reviewer 2: I used to think I was smart, then I read this: If `k-means++` is selected, the initial cluster centroids are selected using sampling based on an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia.

:D :D

#### Output:

> - `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Vertex for which we got cluster_id.
> - `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Corresponding cluster id of vertex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Cluster ID of the above node.
```

#### Usage:

```cypher
 CALL kmeans.get_clusters(2, "embedding", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
 RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
   ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

### `set_clusters( n_clusters, embedding_property, cluster_property, init, n_init, max_iter, tol, algorithm, random_state)`
Procedure sets for each node to which cluster it belongs to by writing cluster id  to `cluster_property`.

> #### Input:

Reviewer 2: Plase check the changes I made in a similar block above, and apply the same changes here

- `n_clusters : int` ➡ The number of clusters to form.
- `embedding_property : str` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `cluster_property: str` ➡ Node property where cluster_id will be stored.
- `init : str` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, the initial cluster centroids are selected using sampling based on an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random` then `n_clusters` observations (rows) are chosen for the initial centroids randomly from the data.
- `n_init : int` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int` ➡ Length of one walk in walk sampling.
- `tol : float` ➡ Relative tolerance with regards to Frobenius norm of the difference in the cluster centers of two consecutive iterations to declare convergence.
- `algorithm : str` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`.

> - `random_state : int` ➡ Use an int to make the randomness deterministic.

Reviewer: The same suggestions apply as with `get_clusters`

#### Output:

> - `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Vertex for which we got cluster_id

Reviewer 2: Please check that each sentence ends with a dot (.)

> - `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Corresponding cluster id of vertex.

Reviewer: The same suggestions apply as with `get_clusters`

#### Input:

- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `init : str` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (rows) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).

> - `random_state : int` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm (default:1998).

Reviewer: Please add the default values from https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/kmeans.py.
Also, make the default value format consistent with existing query modules (e.g. [katz_centrality_online](https://memgraph.com/docs/mage/query-modules/cpp/katz-centrality-online#setalpha-epsilon)) - the values are easy to miss if they’re to the right of the description.

Author: Done!

#### Input:

- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.

> - `cluster_property: str` ➡ Node property where cluster_id will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cluster_property: str` ➡ Node property where `cluster_id` will be stored.
```

- `init : str` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (rows) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).

> - `random_state : int` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm (default:1998).

Reviewer: Same thing as with `get_clusters`

Author: Done!
